ANT Android Emulator Bridge USER GUIDE

Contact us at:
ANT Wireless
http://www.thisisant.com

------------------------------
CONTENTS:

1. OVERVIEW
2. INITIALISE BRIDGE
3. USAGE
4. TRAY ICON USAGE
5. BUFFERED BURSTING

------------------------------


1. OVERVIEW

   This program bridges ANT traffic between an Android emulator and an ANT USB 
   stick connected to a Windows PC.


2. INITIALISE BRIDGE

   1. Start the program
   2. Select the desired USB to use from the drop down menu
   3. Choose which port to use
   4. Click connect
      - You will get prompted that your firewall is blocking the selected
        port, and if it should allow this program through. Click Unblock
   5. Check your computer's IP address (this can be found with command line's
      ipconfig command. Start > run > cmd > ipconfig >
      IPv4 Address. . . . . . . . . . . : x.x.x.x


3. USAGE

   Layout. From top left to bottom right:

   * Port configuration: 
        Click Config Port to change what port you're using.
   * Connect to USB: 
        Select the ANT USB device to use from the drop down menu, then click 
        connect.
   * Status textbox: 
        Basic output regarding what the program is doing.
   * Buffered Bursting checkbox: 
        Choose whether or not to buffer bursts. See Buffered Bursting section 
        for pros and cons on both configurations.
   * Clear button: 
        Clears the traffic logs.
   * Traffic logs: 
        Displays the hex output of the messages sent from emulator to USB and 
        back.

   Usage tips:

   * While the Emulator Bridge is connected to the emulator don't suddenly close
     the connection (Disconnecting or Exiting). First close any open ANT apps,
     and the emulator, then close the Emulator Bridge.


4. TRAY ICON USAGE

   * Yellow icon: 
        Either ANT or the emulator are not connected to the program.
   * White icon: 
        Both ANT and the emulator are connected, the program is
        bridging ANT traffic.
   * Red icon: 
        An error has occurred.

   In addition to these you can check the tooltip for the current program 
   state, or right click the icon for a menu


5. BUFFERED BURSTING

   Because of possible latency on the TCP connection, bursting does not work as 
   it would on a physical Android phone with an ANT chip.

   * Without buffered bursting:
        There is a chance not enough data packets will arrive to the bridge app,
        and the burst will starve and fail.
        This approach ensures the emulator stays in sync with the ANT USB and 
        the messages are handled the same way as on a physical device, but fails
        much more frequently; especially with longer bursts.
   * With buffered bursting:
        All the packets will be received and buffered, without being forwarded. 
        When the last packet is received the bridge app transmits all the data 
        to the ANT USB.
        This approach ensures the burst will not starve, but will desynchronize 
        the emulator and the ANT USB.
        As a side note: The ANT chip is still active while the emulator bridge 
        is buffering the burst, so you may receive extra messages until the 
        event transfer start.
